Apply for Degree Conferral (Graduation) & Commencement
Eligibility and Applying for Degree Conferral
Students are eligible to apply for degree conferral when their degree audit states “all requirements satisfied (with or without in progress courses)” and they are in good academic standing with UNT (minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA) or will be by the end of the term.

Students otherwise eligible for degree conferral who complete their final course or courses elsewhere will not graduate at the end of the term/semester or summer session/term in which the work is completed due to the time required for obtaining and processing transcripts. These students will have their degrees conferred at the close of a subsequent UNT term/semester.

Applying for Degree Conferral (Graduation)
When to Apply for Conferral
First, read through these self-check steps to ensure you are ready to apply for degree conferral: Log in to myUNT. Choose the Academic Records icon. Choose Application for Graduation and verify that your academic program/plan information accurately reflects your major(s)/minor(s)/certificate programs. If it is not accurate, please contact your academic advisor.

Check your online degree audit at mydegreeaudit.unt.edu.
For undergraduate students: If your audit states “All Requirements Satisfied – In Progress Courses
Used” (see picture below), then you are eligible to apply for degree conferral. If it does not state “All
Requirements Satisfied – In Progress Courses Used” but you believe you are currently enrolled in
remaining requirements to complete your degree, make an appointment with your academic or
program advisor.

See your college advising office before applying if:
• You have transfer work that is not yet included in your UNT record.
• You are enrolled in or plan to enroll in classes at another institution to meet your degree
requirements. Please note that per the university catalog, students are not eligible to take courses
outside of UNT in their graduating semester.
• You believe you are eligible to apply for degree conferral but do not see the op on available to you
in your myUNT account.
If you believe you meet the above requirements, please ensure you submit your application before the
deadline.
The application for degree conferral opens in October for students graduating in Spring and Summer terms and
opens in March for students graduating in Fall terms. The deadline for applying typically takes place in
February for Spring graduation, June* for Summer graduation, and September for Fall graduation.
*Note that students wishing to participate in the May commencement ceremony as a summer
graduate should submit their application by the February deadline.
How to Apply for Conferral
1. Login to myUNT: my.unt.edu
2. Navigate to the Applica on for Graduation
a. On the Student Homepage, select the Academic Records button.
b. On the le  side navigation, selection “Applica on for Graduation.”
c. Move the slider to “Yes” to select that you would like to apply.
d. NOTE: The option may be visible even if you are not eligible for degree conferral. Please see
your academic advising office if you do not have access to the link or to review your eligibility
for degree conferral.
3. Confirm your degree information.
a. Your degree, major, and minor(s) should be listed. If the information does not match what is
expected, please reach out to your academic advising office.
b. Toggle the button to select the application.
c. Select the appropriate term that you are applying for conferral. Please note that you should
apply for the term in which you will complete all degree requirements. Students participating
in the Spring commencement ceremony while finishing coursework in the Summer should
apply for summer.
d. Select the next button in the top right.
4. Confirm your Diploma Name
a. Confirm that your name is spelled correctly and is exactly as you wish for it to appear on the
diploma. If this information is incorrect, please submit a request to update your chosen/diploma
name. Please note that diplomas are required to print with a student’s legal last name.
Instructions on updating your Primary Name can be found at the link above.
b. Select the next button in the top right.
5. Confirm the address you would like your diploma mailed to.
a. Confirm the address that you would like your diploma mailed to. This should be a location that
you can receive mail 6-8 weeks a er the end of the semester in which you are graduating.
b. Select the next button in the top right
6. Confirm your contact information.
a. Confirm that your e-mail and phone number are correct. Please note that we cannot send
information to a non-UNT e-mail address, so your UNT e-mail address is the only op on. If your
phone number is not correct, please return to your profile in myUNT to update your
information.
b. Select the next button in the top right.
7. Submit your application.
a. Select the blue submit button in the top right to submit your application.
b. Congratulations on submitting your application for graduation! If you have questions regarding
the status of your application or need to make changes to your application, please contact your
academic advising office for assistance.