Commencement Participation
Students approved for degree conferral will be invited to participate in Commencement and will receive direct participation communications to their UNT student email, including RSVP instructions.

To ensure that you receive these instructions, please add commencement@unt.edu, info@commencement.unt.edu, and noreply@marchingorder.com to your safe senders. Instructions to add to your safe senders can be found on Microsoft Support. Students must RSVP by the deadline to participate in the ceremony (see deadlines in the table below).

What is Degree Conferral and what is Commencement?
Degree Conferral (graduation) and Commencement are two distinct student milestones that occur as a student is completing their degree.

Degree Conferral occurs when the student has successfully completed all degree requirements (this includes grades for current work, posting of any transfer work, completion of non-coursework requirements, etc) and the University officially records the completed degree on the student record (transcript).

Commencement is often referred to as "graduation," but it is different. The commencement ceremony is just that, a ceremony. It is a celebration for students projected to successfully complete all degree requirements by the end of a term.

Approval to participate in commencement does not indicate that a degree is complete and will be conferred as current term courses are still in progress when applications are approved.

What to Expect After You've Applied
Emails about application status are sent during the middle and end of the semester of application. If your application is approved, an email will be sent with graduation information, final requirements, and additional notes. Please make sure to check your UNT student email for updates.

Master and doctoral conferral applications are processed through Toulouse Graduate School, 940-565-2383.

A diploma will be ordered on the student's behalf and mailed to the student's “mailing” address type. Update your mailing address at the end of the semester to ensure receipt of your diploma.

All Spring 2025 Diplomas will have a conferral date of May 10, 2025. 

It takes 2-4 weeks after the conferral date to award all degrees and 6-8 weeks after that to print and ship diplomas.

Important Deadlines
Spring 2025 Graduates
Application Available	October 7, 2024
Undergraduate Deadline to Apply	February 14, 2025
Graduate Deadline to Apply	February 21, 2025
Deadline to RSVP for Commencement	April 9, 2025
Deadline to Make Changes to Records (mailing address, diploma name, graduation application)	May 2, 2025

Summer 2025 Graduates
Application Available	October 7, 2024
Undergraduate Deadline to Apply	June 20, 2025
Graduate Deadline to Apply	June 27, 2025
Deadline to Make Changes to Records (mailing address, diploma name, graduation application)	July 25, 2025

Fall 2025 Graduates
Application Available	March 17, 2025
Undergraduate Deadline to Apply	September 19, 2025
Graduate Deadline to Apply	September 26, 2025
Deadline to RSVP for Commencement	TBD
Deadline to Make Changes to Records (mailing address, diploma name, graduation application)	December 5, 2025

Withdraw Graduation Application
Students who applied for conferral/graduation and no longer wish to confer this term or applied in error, may request their application(s) be withdrawn. Once an application is withdrawn, students must re-apply for conferral through myUNT.

Withdrawal request forms for graduation applications received after reading day (May 2) will require additional review for approval.

To Withdraw:

Undergraduate Students: Complete the Request to Withdraw Undergraduate Graduation Application Form.
Master and Doctoral Students: Contact the Toulouse Graduate School at Graduation@unt.edu.
Withhold Directory Information
If you have previously requested that the Registrar's Office “Withhold Directory Information” concerning your academic records we will not be able to verify your degree to potential employers. If you no longer want directory information withheld, please see How to Request the Release of Directory Information.

First Bachelors:

$1,000 Tuition Rebate: Form must be received prior to the end of the graduating semester.
Graduation with Honors: Latin Honors will be printed on eligible diplomas.
Eagle Express: Students participating in the Eagle Express Tuition Plan are encouraged to apply for graduation as soon as possible. Eligible students will receive the incentive automatically after applying to graduate and registering for their final term of enrollment. For more information, please visit eagleexpress.unt.edu or call 940-565-3225.