Data Science & Industry Innovation (DSII) Center - 
Data Science & Industry Innovation (DSII) Center is a interdisciplinary research and industry collaboration among faculty and students in the College of Information at UNT for strengthening related academic programs in the undergraduate and graduate levels. The research and industry collaboration in the center will help attract the very best students to UNT. The Data Science & Industry Innovation (DSII) Center's goal is to support research in data science, data visualization, virtual reality, mixed reality, cyber learning, computer science, artificial intelligence, and machine learning. The primary mission of the DSII is to enhance collaborative research at UNT by: Helping to train scientists in advanced and innovative research methods, Encouraging high-quality interdisciplinary research across departments/colleges, Supporting grant proposals that effectively promote scientific research, Disseminating research findings that address significant challenges in data science and visualization. DSII Center Address: Suite G152 Discovery Park, 3940 North Elm Street, University of North Texas, Denton, Texas 76201.

Community - 
For Researchers - Research Development(https://research.unt.edu/research-services/research-development/). The research development core area aligns with the strategic plan of the VPRI to help researchers at the University of North Texas to educate and provide resources to our researchers, as well as seek and secure external funding, build interdisciplinary teams, and liaise between different units on campus to build better proposals. Research Opportunity. Research opportunities flourish on the campus because UNT values undergraduate and graduate research and the benefits it offers to students, faculty, and even the institution itself. Research Resources(https://research.unt.edu/other-resources/student-research). Participating in research enriches the education process through learning, discovery and professional development. UNT students have the opportunity to work with top research faculty and research staff, present their research, and apply for external funding support.

For Students - Apply to UNT(https://www.unt.edu/admissions/). Information on requirements and application deadlines. Applications will continue to be accepted after the priority date. Admission decisions are made on a rolling basis. Undergrad Research. The University of North Texas recognizes the value of undergraduate research—for students, faculty members, and even the institution itself. Grad Research(https://research.unt.edu/other-resources/student-research). Provides resources for graduate students, including travel grants to present research, research awards, writing resources, workshops, and other support services essential for graduate student success.

Research Areas-
Data Science, Data Visualization, Machine Learning and A.I., Human Centered Computing, Virtual and Augmented Reality, English Language Learning in Immersive Environments

About Our Research -
There is a huge demand for Data Scientists that is expanding into every aspect of the modern workplace and daily life and our mission to diversify the STEM workforce. The Data Science & Industry Innovation (DSII) Center will support research in data science, data visualization, virtual reality, mixed reality, cyber learning, computer science, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and simulation technologies for novel assessment, modeling, and training. The DSII center will involve a large number of students which in turn will enhance the viability of UNT. The DSII group will develop and integrate data science into interactive simulations (VR/AR/MR/XR), as well as web-based resources for assessment and training. The center aligns with the UNT's mission of becoming globally known for collaborative and imaginative educational innovation and scholarly activity that transforms our students and benefits the world around us. Research at UNT is about discovering new relationships between diverse ideas and disciplines. These links are where breakthrough discoveries are possible that will enable humanity to continue growing safer, healthier, and wealthier over time. There is no shortage of these ideas at UNT. We are a community of curious innovators, scholars, and creators, and the commitment to UNT's motto of "creative, caring and resilient" for students is deeply entrenched among us. We value interdisciplinary problem-solving, leadership and service, and a commitment to educate the next generation of innovators.

Leadership -
Dr. Kinshuk is the Dean of the College of Information at the University of North Texas. Prior to that, he held the NSERC/CNRL/Xerox/McGraw Hill Research Chair for Adaptivity and Personalization in Informatics, funded by the Federal government of Canada, Provincial government of Alberta, and by national and international industries. With more than 550 research publications in refereed journals, international refereed conferences and book chapters, he is frequently invited as keynote or principal speaker in international conferences and visiting professor around the world. His work has been dedicated to advancing research on the innovative paradigms, architectures and implementations of online and distance learning systems for individualized and adaptive learning in increasingly global environments. Areas of his research interests include learning analytics; learning technologies;, mobile, ubiquitous and location aware learning systems; cognitive profiling; and, interactive technologies. Research and Activities of Interest: Learning analytics, Learning Technologies, Mobile, ubiquitous, and location aware learning systems, Cognitive profiling, Interactive technologies. kinshuk@unt.edu.
Dr. Sharad Sharma is a Professor in the Department of Information Science at the University of North Texas (UNT). Dr. Sharma is an expert in modeling and simulation of human behavior for emergency response and decision making with focus on multi-agent systems (MAS), multi-user virtual reality (MUVR), and mobile augmented reality applications (MARA). He is interested in merging Data Science and Virtual Reality for Advanced Visualization. He has acquired several research grants from various funding agencies such a Department of Defense (DoD), Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Army Research Laboratory (ARL), and the National Science Foundation (NSF). He has published more than 100 peer-reviewed conference, books, and journal articles in top conferences. Research and Activities of Interest: Data Science, Data Visualization, Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality, Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Human-Computer Interaction, Human Behavior Modeling, Multi-Agent System, Gaming. sharad.sharma@unt.edu.
As a recognized AI and data analytics expert, Cortnie Abercrombie was asked to be a Founding Editorial Board Member for Springer Nature's AI and Ethics journal. She was named one of “12 Brilliant Women in Artificial Intelligence & Ethics to Watch,” one of the “Top 100 Innovators in Data and Analytics,” and one of “10 Big Data Experts to Know.” She's a top advisor to Fortune 500 companies on responsible artificial intelligence and data innovation practices. She is also the CEO and founder of AI Truth, a non-profit organization dedicated to responsible creation and use of AI.
Dr. Junhua Ding is a Professor of Data Science in the Department of Information Science, University of North Texas (UNT). He is the Director of Data Science Programs (undergraduate and graduate) at UNT. He was a faculty member with the Department of Computer Science at East Carolina University (ECU) before he joined UNT in 2018. His research interests include Data Analytics, Computational Law, Biomedical Computation, Information Security and Privacy, and Software Engineering. Research and Activities of Interest: Data Science and Engineering, Machine Learning, Software Engineering, Biomedical Computation.

Associated Research Labs - Data Innovation Lab, Data Visualization Extreme Reality (DVXR) Lab, Simulation User Research & Game Experience (SURGE XR) Lab.

Data Innovation Lab - Director, Dr. Jeonghyun Kim. The Data Innovation Lab is interested in applying/developing novel interdisciplinary research methods to tackle data-driven problems and exploring data-driven methodology in evidence-based information science research and practice. For more information about the Data Innovation Lab, please visit the lab website (https://ci.unt.edu/datainnovationlab/).

Data Visualization Extreme Reality (DVXR) Lab - Director, Sharad Sharma, PhD; Information Science. The Data Visualization and Extreme Reality (DVXR) Lab provides visualization solutions for a wide range of data sets in a collaborative, interdisciplinary, and interactive environment. Extended reality (XR) includes representative forms such as augmented reality (AR), mixed reality (MR) and virtual reality (VR). We focus on developing methods and tools for analyzing, visualizing, and interacting with massive, dynamic, and ambiguous data from various application domains. For more information about the Data Visualization and Extreme Reality (DVXR) Lab, please visit the lab website (https://ci.unt.edu/dvxr/).

Simulation User Research & Game Experience (SURGE XR) Lab - Director, Aleshia Hayes, PhD; Learning Technologies. The Simulation User Research Game Experience Lab, or SURGE Lab, is dedicated to advancing research in Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR), Extended Reality (XR), and Mixed Reality (MR).  The lab is housed in the Department of Learning Technologies in the College of Information at the University of North Texas in Denton, Texas. For more information about the SURGE XR Lab, please visit the lab website (https://ci.unt.edu/surge/).