F1 Visa Holder Regulation
Federal regulations state that students may apply only 3 fully-online semester credit hours to the hours required for full-time status for F1 Visa holders. Full-time status for F1 Visa students is 12 hours for undergraduates and 9 hours for graduate students. Instructors teaching online courses should insert information into the syllabus to make F1 Visa students aware of this limitation and provide them with information about options to complete an on-campus experiential component in a course that is otherwise fully-online.

If a F-1 Visa holder intends to take more than 3 Semester Credit Hours of online courses in a term, they will need to document the on-campus experiential component of all courses that exceed the 3-hour limit. This on-campus experiential component can be satisfied in a number of ways including a face-to-face test, lab work, a required on-site lecture, mandatory library orientation, etc. Instructors should develop an option to assist students who request an on-campus experiential component to meet the federal regulation. Instructors should have students requesting this assistance to complete the On-campus Component Reporting Form for Online Courses which requires both the student and the instructor’s signature. The instructor should make a copy for the student’s departmental file and send a copy to the UNT International Student and Scholar Services (routing address on the form).

Visa holders are responsible for meeting full-time course enrollment requirements. 
Undergraduate students must enroll in 12 credit hours during each long semester.
Graduate students must enroll in 9 credit hours during each long semester.
Students are required to enroll full-time in the summer ONLY if it is the student's first or last semester at UNT.

Less Than Full-Time Enrollment
Graduate students must be enrolled in 9 credit hours. Dissertators are considered full-time if enrolled for 3 credit hours.If you are enrolled in fewer credit hours, complete and submit the Graduate Student Full Time Equivalency Form in iNorthTX.

Undergraduates students must be enrolled in 12 credit hours.For any semester in which you are enrolled less than full-time, complete and submit the Undergraduate Reduced Course Load Request form via iNorthTX.Submitted forms must be approved by International Student & Scholar Services. 

Do not drop a class until you have received written confirmation from ISSS. Once ISSS has provided written confirmation, student must go through the Registrar's Office to drop the class. 

You are also required to enroll full-time in the summer if it is your first or last semester of enrollment at UNT. If you are continuing your required enrollment from a Spring to Fall semester, you are not required to enroll in Summer classes. 

The code of Federal Regulations allows the following for approval to maintain status for less than full-time enrollment:

Academic Only one semester per degree allowed in this category. Minimum 6 credits allowed.

Initial difficulties with the English language, or initial difficulties with reading requirements. (first semester only)
Unfamiliarity with American teaching methods  (first semester only)
Improper course level placement
Final SemesterYou are only allowed one final semester per degree.
Completing all degree requirements this semester.
Medical Maximum one year aggregate allowed.
Medical condition
Medical documentation signed by your licensed medical doctor, licensed doctor of osteopathy, or licensed clinical psychologist, containing recommendations concerning your course-load must be attached.

Concurrent Enrollment
Enrollment at UNT and another institution simultaneously.

This information regarding concurrent enrollment is only in reference to your immigration status only. Please make sure that you understand what impacts concurrent enrollment may have on your enrollment at UNT prior to concurrently enrolling. 

The decision to concurrently enroll at another school may impact many areas of your UNT studies including scholarships. Many scholarship awards require full-time enrollment at UNT and verification of enrollment requirements should be completed before you concurrently enroll at another school.

Please contact each department where you receive a scholarship award to determine if part-time enrollment at UNT may impact your scholarship(s).

How to Obtain Concurrent Enrollment Approval

Enroll in your UNT class(es). You must be enrolled in at least one face-to-face class at UNT. 
Check with your department to ensure that your credits will transfer to UNT.
Complete the Concurrent Enrollment Letter Request Form in iNorthTX. ISSS will provide a concurrent enrollment letter for you to submit to the other institution.
As soon as you have registered at the other institution, you must provide proof of registration and credit hours to International Student and Scholar Services. You must complete this step by the 12th day of class at UNT.
Once you have completed classes at the other institution, submit a copy of your grade report to International Student and Scholar Services.
Don't forget to send a transcript to the UNT Registrar's Office to get your credits officially transferred!

Online Enrollment
Standard Online Enrollment Restrictions: USCIS regulations state that a student can only apply one 3-credit online course toward the 12-credit undergraduate requirement or the 9-credit graduate requirement each semester.

If international students register for more than the required 9 or 12 credits, students may take additional online education credits.

For example, an undergraduate student taking 18 credits could have nine on-campus credits and nine online credits, with nine on-campus plus three of the online credits completing the full-time course requirement. The additional six online credits are additional credits beyond the full-time requirement.

If a course has any on-campus requirement, it is not considered an online course:
 
For F-1 students enrolled in classes for credit or classroom hours, no more than the equivalent of one class or three credits per session, term, semester, trimester, or quarter may be counted toward the full course of study requirement if the class is taken on-line or through distance education and does not require the student's physical attendance for classes, examinations or other purposes integral to completion of the class. An on-line or distance education class is a course that is offered principally through the use of television, audio, or computer transmission including open broadcast, closed circuit, cable, microwave, or satellite, audio conferencing, or computer conferencing. If the F-1 student's course of study is in a language study program, no on-line or distance education classes may be considered to count toward a student's full course of study requirement." 8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G)
 
If a student participates in a "physical attendance" activity for an online course, the course is not considered an online course for the purposes of this rule.
 
Examples of "physical attendance" activities include tests, conferences, presentations, laboratory work, or other class-related activities that takes place on the UNT campus.
 
This activity may be completed individually or as part of a group.
 
This activity that is undertaken by the international student on campus may be an activity that is done online by other students registered in the class.
 
There is an On-Campus Component Reporting Form in iNorthTX. 
 
Completed forms must be submitted before the 12th class day of the semester.