Internship Program – Information for Students
An internship is much more than a job. It’s an experiential learning opportunity (typically one semester in length) related to your field of study that emphasizes “on-the-job” training. Other names for experiential learning are student teaching, practicum, co-op, study abroad, or service-learning. Some internships are unpaid, but our program strives to promote paid opportunities. An internship or other experience is required in some degree programs, but even if it’s not a requirement you may be able to get credit for it. Check with your Academic Advisor to determine your situation.

If your internship is completed for credit, there will be specific requirements set by your academic department that must be met. Regardless of your major, an internship is an extremely valuable opportunity, and every UNT student is encouraged to complete at least one. To get started, review the resources on this page, check out the Internship FAQs (https://cdn.uconnectlabs.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/68/2024/09/Internships-Frequently-Asked-Questions.pdf), and watch the Internships: Student Testimonial Videos (https://careercenter.unt.edu/resources/internships-student-testimonial-videos/).

Internship Team
Internship specialists will work with academic departments and employers to promote internship opportunities. Students can find more specific information about their internship requirements by visiting the Internship by departments page.

Supporting the Employer Services Internship Team is:

Jazmyne Dixson, supports internships for the following Colleges: Education; Engineering; Science; Merchandising, Hospitality and Tourism; Information.
James Grandfield, supports internships for the following Colleges: Liberal Arts and Social Sciences – Most Majors; Visual Arts & Design; Mayborn School of Journalism; Music; Toulouse Graduate School.
Corey Davidson, supports internships for the following Colleges: Liberal Arts and Social Sciences – Media Arts, Converged Broadcast Media, Anthropology, and Integrative Studies/Social Sciences; Health and Public Services.
G. Brint Ryan College of Business – Elizabeth Hubbard, SCM Majors; Corie Warren-Tucker, ITDS and FIREL Majors; Mo Lucille, Sport Entertainment Management Majors; Georgia Weeks, all other Management and Marketing Majors (including Professional Selling); Sarah Spath, Accounting Majors.
Students at UNT at Frisco – Stacey Jones, Sonya Pagel.
Internship Information by Department
For more information on internships for your major and department, visit our Internship Program by Department page (https://careercenter.unt.edu/internship-program-information-for-academic-departments/).

Unpaid Internship Scholarship
Do you have an unpaid internship? The UNT Career Center is offering scholarships for undergraduate students participating in unpaid internships. The intention of the scholarship is to encourage and support experiential learning opportunities that help students prepare for their careers. Learn more about the Unpaid Internship Scholarship (https://careercenter.unt.edu/resources/unpaid-internship-scholarship/).

Graduation Cords
Did you know that if you are graduating and have completed an internship during your time at UNT, you are eligible to receive a platinum graduation cord? Learn more about it here (https://careercenter.unt.edu/blog/2020/12/16/internship-graduation-cords/).

The Value of Internships
One advantage of completing an internship is that employers prefer to hire graduates who’ve gained hands-on experience related to their major. Other benefits are that it:

Extends your classroom learning into a real-world setting.
Provides the opportunity to reinforce your choice of major and career path.
Allows you to gain practical experience and transferable skills by working in a professional environment.
Gives you a competitive advantage in the job market because of the knowledge and skills you develop in the position.
Helps you develop a network of professional contacts in your career field.
Provides insight into your future career.

Finding an Internship
Many employers are looking for students to complete internships. Check out some of the currently available positions here (https://careercenter.unt.edu/jobs/?ctag%5B%5D=internship), and filter the list by your college. A complete list of current internship opportunities is available in Handshake (https://unt.joinhandshake.com/login). After you log in to Handshake, you can filter for internships.

As you start your search, remember to consider the Department of Labor’s Fair Labor Standards Act, which outlines when an unpaid internship is legally permissible. According to Fact Sheet #71 (https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/fact-sheets/71-flsa-internships), the following criteria must be met for an internship to be considered unpaid:
The extent to which the intern and the employer clearly understand that there is no expectation of compensation. Any promise of compensation, express or implied, suggests that the intern is an employee—and vice versa.
The extent to which the internship provides training that would be similar to that which would be given in an educational environment, including the clinical and other hands-on training provided by educational institutions.
The extent to which the internship is tied to the intern’s formal education program by integrated coursework or the receipt of academic credit.
The extent to which the internship accommodates the intern’s academic commitments by corresponding to the academic calendar.
The extent to which the internship’s duration is limited to the period in which the internship provides the intern with beneficial learning.
The extent to which the intern’s work complements, rather than displaces, the work of paid employees while providing significant educational benefits to the intern.
The extent to which the intern and the employer understand that the internship is conducted without entitlement to a paid job at the conclusion of the internship.
The Texas Internship Challenge is a partnership among the Texas Workforce Commission (TWC), Texas Education Agency (TEA), and Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB), who challenge employers to offer paid internships and make it easy for students to search and apply for them. Check out the Texas Internship Challenge (https://www.txinternshipchallenge.com/vosnet/Default.aspx?enc=vLa15KtdCzQQMP6jrcRdIQ==) to learn more about the initiative and start your search.

The Federal government works in every industry and every sector. It is the largest and most diverse employer in the United States, with four million public servants working every day to strengthen communities. Internships are a great opportunity to work alongside these experts, learn valuable skills, drive change, and make a positive impact. Check out the new Federal Internship Portal (https://intern.usajobs.gov/Search/Results?hp=student&wt=15328&s=salary&sd=desc&p=1) to learn about current opportunities.

UNT students are eligible to earn paid internship opportunities with TXWORKS. TXWORKS offers face-to-face, hybrid or virtual internships and give you meaningful, challenging, real-world work experiences:

TXWORKS Overview
Employer Overview
TXWORKS Employer Application
Student Overview
TXWORKS Student Eligibility Form
See their website to learn more (https://www.highered.texas.gov/workforce-education-overview/).

Internships Abroad
There are opportunities for students to participate in internships abroad.  Keep in mind that while these are great opportunities, there are more costs involved (airfare, fees for collaborating agencies, room & board, etc.) than a typical internship and credit may not be available. To view the available international internships, log in to Handshake and go to Search Jobs. Click on the International Internships position type and start your search. These positions are made available with the help of UNT’s Study Abroad Office.

Career Treks
Career Treks (https://careercenter.unt.edu/career-treks-job-shadowing-program/) was established to facilitate job shadowing opportunities across all industries, and is designed to assist students in their career exploration and development by matching them with hosts working in career field of interest.

Research
To find out about student research events, click here (https://research.unt.edu/student-research/student-research-events).

UNT Global Career Accelerator
UNT is partnering with Podium Education to bring you The UNT Global Career Accelerator where you can add real-world experience to your resume for-credit and get access to an exclusive career network. During the semester, you’ll gain field experience, credentials, and earn 6 UNT credits. Clear here (https://www.globaltech.unt.edu/) for additional information, including timelines, cost, and credit options.

Alternatives to the Traditional Internship
In addition to a typical internship, there are other ways for you to gain experience and learn about a particular company or profession. The Internship Alternatives resource (https://careercenter.unt.edu/resources/internship-alternatives/) highlights some of these opportunities.

Forage
Forage is a virtual work experience program. As a student, you can engage in online simulations of the work done at leading companies. Any student, regardless of university degree, prior experience, location or year group, can experience working at some of the world’s top firms, and the account is free. Below are some examples of work experiences:

Aon – Apprenticeship Program – Learn what it’s like to be an apprentice at a global services company.
Electronic Arts (EA) Software Engineering Virtual Experience Program – Learn what it’s like to be a software engineer at a gaming company.
GE Explorer Digital Technology Enterprise Program – Get insight into exciting, cutting-edge projects GE interns work on everyday, work to solve real-world challenges, and have the opportunity to kickstart your career with GE.
BCG Digital Ventures – BCG is a corporate innovation and digital business-building arm of Boston Consulting Group. By completing at least two tasks, you will receive a digital badge of completion.
BCG Data Science & Advanced Analytics – Take on practical tasks similar to what BCGers work on and get a feel of what it’s like to work at BCG as a strategy consultant, technology consultant, and a designer.
Parker Dewey
Parker Dewey is a competitive opportunity for college students and recent graduates to complete short-term, paid, professional assignments in a completely virtual setting. It has proven to be a great opportunity for students and recent graduates to demonstrate their skills, gain applied experience, and build their professional portfolios as they seek the right full-time role or internship. It is free for UNT students and alumni. Micro-Internship Destination Survey 2020

• 88% of respondents who graduated in 2020 are employed. This represents an almost 25% higher employment rate than all of 2019 college graduates as reported by NACE (2020 NACE data is not available yet).
• 87% said they feel more prepared to work remotely and independently after completing projects.
• 82% reported that pay was important and they valued the opportunity to get compensated for their work.

Informational Interviewing
An informational interview can serve to build your base of networking contacts and allow you to conduct research on your academic major and identify potential career options. This can be a great option if you are early in your academic career or looking to switch fields.

Career Treks
Career Treks is a program designed to offer additional alternative internship. Career Treks exists in two forms: live job site visits and recorded interviews with students and working professionals. The former format, known as Career Treks Live, is an in-person one-to-five-day job shadowing experience for students to participate in. It is designed provide students opportunities for career exploration and professional development by offering on-site experience in a career field relevant to their academic studies. You will be able to visit companies and organizations, primarily in the DFW area, to network with professionals and to learn about career options related to your major.

The later format of the program, devised to accommodate students after COVID-19, is known as Career Treks On-Demand. This opportunity offers recorded informational interviews for students to view. These sessions include interviews with professionals working in an array of fields as well as interviews with current students and alum who participated in internships during their time at UNT.  In these sessions, you can gain valuable insight on what working in a specific field might be like and find answers to some of your top internship questions. Check out Career Treks to learn more.