Admission Process for the Department of Data Science
We are currently accepting applications for Summer and Fall 2025. Priority deadlines: (Please note - Applications will still be accepted until the program has reached capacity, however, applications received after the dates below are not guaranteed to be processed prior to the start of the applied semester.) Summer 2025:  March 15th, 2025 (Domestic Applicants). Fall 2025:  June 15th, 2025 (All Applicants). The Data Science master's program is mathematics and programming intensive. Please read through the instructions below for more details regarding these requirements. If you are applying for the Summer 2025, Fall 2025 or later terms, please follow this link for additional instructions on how to apply and read through the steps below: https://tgs.unt.edu/future-students/graduate-admissions/how-to-apply-liaison.html

1.Start Your Application. Apply HERE (https://unt2025.cas.myliaison.com/applicant-ux/#/login) with the UNT GradCAS (Centralized Application System). International students must also review the International Admissions page (https://www.unt.edu/admissions/graduate/admission-requirements.html) for additional required documents. Transcripts: Contact the colleges and universities you have attended about their processes for providing official transcripts. Most institutions provide transcripts electronically directly to us, all you have to do is request it. Review: The Toulouse Graduate School will review transcripts to verify minimum GPA requirements of 3.2 on the last 60 hours of a bachelor's degree, a 3.2 cumulative undergraduate GPA, or a 3.5 GPA on a completed master's degree. For transcript questions, please contact graduateschool@unt.edu. Note: We do not require GRE or GMAT scores.


2.Submit Application Materials. Inside the UNT GradCAS application portal (https://unt2025.cas.myliaison.com/applicant-ux/#/login) you are able to: Request transcripts from institutions that will be tied directly to your application. Upload the following application documents: A resume or curriculum vitae indicating your knowledge of programming languages (at least one language) and of your mathematics competency, specifically: Linear Algebra, Calculus II, Probability and Statistics. In addition to the programming language knowledge and mathematics competency, your CV should also include your educational background, work experience, completed projects, honors, awards and/or scholarships received. An experience write-up detailing coursework, professional experiences, or training that you feel satisfies our mathematics and programming language proficiency requirements. Please include dates for these experiences/courses. It is also recommended that you include your goals, career objectives, and your purpose in pursuing this degree program. Provide contact information for your recommenders to submit letters of recommendation electronically. Two (2) letters of recommendation are required to complete your application. Pay Application Fee - Submit the $75 non-refundable payment* for the application which will prompt the Graduate Admissions office to begin the evaluation process. *Note: PDF format is preferred for application documents. For questions about the application process, please contact us at ci-admissions@unt.edu.

